Okay everybody Welcome back over into blender.
So in this particular case what we're going to do is we're going to probably adjust the scale of this
slots as well.
But what we really need to put it into context is a backdrop.
Now we're going to be looking at most of the animation from this kind of angle.
So let's first of all have a look at where the camera's looking.
So it is looking in generally the right directions are backdrops going to go back this way.
And so Scoot upwards.
So let's go ahead and add in a plane and I'm going to immediately call that plane backdrop so I know
what it is okay with that plane selected.
I'm going to scale it up but I'm going to scale it up Boston edit my SO I DON'T HAVE TO REMEMBER ANY
transforms.
So let's scale it up that's maybe when he certainly needs to fill the camera maybe 10.
I think that's a good sign.
So it's going to be 20 by 20 that's come out of a camera view and I'm going to select this edge running
backwards and forwards just here.
And then once we've selected that I can extrude that and just extrude it up by probably 10 again maybe
10 maybe a little more.
Okay.
So one of the things to bear in mind here is we might pan the camera from one side to the other and
it will look odd if we don't extend.
So what's I'm going to do is I'm going to select these two edges either side and then literally scale
them but only on the y axis.
And that will pull them out and I'm going to do that by may be a factor of three or thereabouts.
There we go.
So we've got a nice stage to work on.
Now what we can do here so we didn't get a harsh corner and have some nice lighting as we can Bevel
this edge.
So if I go control and beat a bevel I can bring that up and then add a few more cuts in.
Now if I wanted to limit how far that Bevel actually went what I could first of all do is go Control
an arm and put a loop cut in and just bring it back ever so slightly.
That will limit where that backdrop is then I can go control and B and it will stop at that point and
I can add some more geometry so maybe that much in there is something to bear in mind here.
If I move the bevel so actually butts up against this particular edge that we've just added what will
happen is we will end up with quite a harsh edge there.
Let's turn on smooth shading right click shade smooth in object mode and we can see here there is a
harsh line.
And the reason why that harsh line there is there is simply because there's two bits of geometry on
top of one another.
So again in edit married what we can do is press the heat select all I'm gonna go F three to search.
Search for doubles.
No.
I will get the hang of this.
It is now merge by distance not removed doubles and we can see that smooths out immediately that extra
edge that was there.
So that's something to bear in mind if you don't remove that extra edge if two surfaces or two edges
are butted up next to one another you get a harsh transition between the two.
Okay that's starting to look pretty good.
So now it's time for your challenge.
So you could finish off this backdrop.
Okay everybody.
Challenge time.
I'd like you to set up your background now you can even follow with the type of background I've got.
You can make your own background as well perhaps placing your lamp in more of a room environments.
Lots of examples that you could do.
I'm gonna make mine as we've seen so far.
Now also set up your bench or other prop that you are using.
So we're gonna have our lamp jumping along jumping onto something falling off of something.
There's lots of different things that you could be doing at this point but make sure that you've blocked
out your scene with the parts that you're going to use.
I might add something in later but for the moment I want to keep it is just the scene itself with the
prop the bench and then the lamp that's going to jump onto the bench and finally feel free to explore
different setups.
This is all an experimental stage is no right or wrong here.
If you've got an idea Why don't you just try it and see how it turns out.
And of course those ideas you do try and share them with us as well.
So go ahead pause video now and give us a go
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead hop on over into blender and set up our background OK.
So let's go ahead and add some place holders.
I'm going to add in a cube to the scene ironically we had just destroyed a cube and scale this down
by half and then move it up on the z axis by half and then move it along the y axis that's roughly in
the right place for our lamp to jump on and then I'm gonna scale it on the x axis by maybe to make it
a bit more of the bench to climb on.
And then finally I'm going to apply my scale it's important to realize that as you're adding things
to the scene it's important that they are applied and he transforms.
That's especially true when it comes to our lamp if we don't do that we're going to end up with some
very funky stuff happening through it later on I'm just gonna check my background.
Yes we did all of those edits in edit mode which means that the scale has remained.
Now we could add a place holder for our lamp and I do.
And the reason why I do is because I want to see how light is affecting a subject that I don't want
to add too much detail.
Now there are a couple of ways of doing this the simple way of doing this is to just add a primitive
in its place.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
I'm going to select the 3d cursor plop it roughly where our lamp is.
I could look from the top as well.
That's pretty accurate.
And then I'm going to add in a cone so mesh objects one cone GZ one and then we go we've got a rough
place holder but there is something more exciting we can do we can use the grease pencil lines that
we've drawn and convert them into real geometry and we'll discover more about that in the next lecture
but until then please share your setups.
Did you go for a slightly different set up here.
I've gone for something more complex.
Have you gone for more of a corner of a room approach.
It's entirely up to you do make this project your own.
Don't just follow along exactly with what I'm doing.
One of the things I am going to do by the way here is go lamp place holder for the moment and also our
cube.
I don't know what to call that to be honest I forgot switch out of the 3D curse it's all there.
Cube I'm going to call it obstacle or bend.
I'm going to call it bench for the moment.
That's why I called it earlier on.
I think that's a good name for it.
Okay so everything's named appropriately over here.
I could link the bench and backdrop together.
So moving one on top of the other doesn't work in this view unless you hold down shift.
If we hold down shift I can set a parents and there we go.
That means if I move the background around the bench will move along with it so there's no harm in it
disappearing.
Let's also switch over just to rendered mode to see what things are looking like currently.
Well we don't have a lamp in our scene so we're going to sort that out in the next lecture.
See you there.